wait_for_prc(){
        running(){ ps -C prc --no-headers -o fname | grep -q prc; }
 if     running; then
  while running; do sleep 1; done
  read -n 1 -t 60 -p "Wait 60 seconds or press space to continue"
 fi
}

sentient_menu(){

 dialog --msgbox "\
Installation with Sorcerer is always 2 parts.
The first part installs a base system
to a block device and makes the block device bootable.
The base system is an adequate starting point
for achieving any potential loadout of installed software.
By this point the base system was installed
and the box was rebooted.
Providing that the network devices
can be configured automatically
and the Internet is accessible
then the second part of installation
begins automatically on Sorcerer Sentient.

The second portion of installation accomplishes
the installation of all the software that is required
in order to provide a desirable loadout
for the purpose of creating
a KDE + xorg + firefox style workstation.

KDE is the K Desktop Environment.
KDE provides menus of programs available for running
and also a method for adjusting where program output
is displayed on available screen space.

xorg provides a method for driving a graphics adapter,
and a method for accepting input from keyboards
mice and other pointers, and also a protocol
for programs to be able to display output graphically.

firefox is an huge program
that is capable of downloading files by
HTTP and FTP protocols and rendering HTML.
With extensions it is capable of running
action script 3, java, java-script,
perform as an email client,
perform as an Internet Realy Chat client, and more.
With plugins firefox is capable of translating words
into different languages and blocking the download
or display of undesirable content such as advertisements,
and even more.

Some more fun software is also included such as gimp,
the GNU Image Manipulation program which is useful
for scanning images and editing photographs.
However, not all the available software
is listed and described in this brief message.

System Administrators can easily view
the manifest of installed software
and add additional software to the install queue.
Non SAs can complete augur's training tutorials.
Tutorials guide students to the sources of information
that impart the skills of a SA.
So, simply put, yes a person must learn minimal SA skills
in order to proper adjust the loadout of installed software.
Otherwise the Sorcerer Sentient box can also be used
with it's default loadout of software.

Sorcerer Sentient's automatic installation of software
began approximately 1 minute after the box boots.
If a minute has elapsed
then viewing the progress is possible.
Occasionally checking the progress may be useful
when eagerly awaiting the final outcome.
However, the installation of over 300 software projects
requires considerably downloading and disk activity.
Installation might require an hour
or 24 hours depending upon several factors.
However, a quad core CPU with more than a gigabyte of RAM
and a fast Internet connection should be able to achieve
a very good installation time.
Attempting to install Sorcerer Sentient on a box with
less than 1G of RAM may result in failure.

In order to expedite installation Sorcerer Sentient
does something a bit different than usual.
It attempts to download and use a mixture
of both source tarballs
and software that was previously compiled
and archived during testing.
Sorcerer constantly seamlessly evolves
and consequently the old puzzle pieces
are not always an exact fit for the new puzzle.
However, the box will usually detect and
attempt to fix errors after 15 minutes has passed.
Seeing many failures is not necessarily bad.
Software can be failed without trying in order to
re-groupt it into a selection that can be re-tried later.

The final portion of
a successful Sorcerer Sentient installation
is the removal of immune-boot-sentient.
If any portion of the process is not successful
then immune-boot-sentient remains installed.
This is good.
The process of installation can be retried at any time.
It can be selected from a menu
or run directly with the command:
/etc/init.d/boot-sentient start

Or if the box is rebooted during or after installation
then the box will attempt to resume Sorcerer Sentient
installation when it next boots.

Thanks for reading.
Hope the new Sorcerer Sentient workstation
deploys without problems.
All problems encountered during testing
are fixed or circumvented.
Therefore, please report persistent problems.
And please feel free to provide feedback.

The Sorcerer Sentient installation method
was in response to feedback from non SAs
disappointed about lacking the skill
required to install Sorcerer.
This compromise allows for deployment
of Sorcerer workstations without SAs.

The Sorcerer Sentient subproject began in 2011.
So it might yet still be new and not widely tested.
Although both the x86_64 and i686 architectures
achieved over 50 successful Sorcerer Sentient
test installs within a qemu virtual machine;
the successful deployment statistics
on actual hardware are not yet known.
That said there is no guarantee about the outcome.
Sorcerer comes without warranty.
Sorcerer is a distribution of free software
that allows deployment free of charge
and encourages SAs to participate
in the continued development of Sorcerer.

Although sales of Sorcerer CDs is not prohibited;
Sorcerer developers do not sell Sorcerer CDs.
Sorcerer developers do not profit from CD sales.
Please do not buy and sell Sorcerer CDs.
The distribution is available for free download
to any computer with an Internet connection." 0 0

 show_menu(){
  dialog --backtitle "Sorcerer Sentient" --title "Task Menu" --stdout \
         --ok-label Select --cancel-label Shell --item-help --menu "$HELP" 0 0 0 \
  Scry    "Executes: augur scry" \
          "heads up display of sorcery activity" \
  Restart "Executes: /etc/init.d/boot-sentient start" \
          "causes no problems and might immediate solve some problems"
 }

 while REPLY=$( show_menu ); do
  case $REPLY in
   Scry)    augur scry ;;
   Restart) /etc/init.d/boot-sentient start ;;
  esac
 done
}

if read < /proc/cmdline; ! [[ $REPLY =~ boot=IR ]]; then
 if   (( UID == 0 )) && [ -x /etc/init.d/boot-sentient ]
 then wait_for_prc; sentient_menu
 else unset ir_menu wait_for_prc sentient_menu
 fi
fi
