Before a box can boot
a boot loader must be installed
to the boot block of the /boot file system.
Normally, this step is absurdly difficult for novices.
It involves creating initramfs images,
creating a boot loader configuration file,
in addition to installing the boot loader
in the boot block of the boot partition.

However, such tasks are considered mundane.
SAs time and effort should not be trifled by mundane tasks.
SAs must already surmount trouble with tribbles.
Therefore, useful init-scripts exists
which accomplish mundane tasks.
Trouble with Tribbles" is yet another reference
to the "Star Trek" television series.

Tribbles is a fitting description
for a CPU heat sink filled and covered with dust.
CPU heat sinks invariably eat dust.
SAs must clean CPU heat sinks
at intervals ranging from biannually to biennially.
A heat dissipation problem
becomes worse without cleaning.
A CPU fan can fail.
A CPU can overheat.
Neglect increases the probability of failure.
An overheating CPU spontaneously shutdown the computer,
halts, or fries the CPU.

SAs in command of many computers
will likely have at least one spare CPU in a box,
a few spare CPU fans,
and a few spare power supplies.
Computer hardware fails eventually.

Someone will expect a SA to fix a computer ASAP.
A user calls the SA and says,
"The computer turned off.  It won't start."
And the correct response is.
"Order pizza and I will fix the computer before it arrives."
Instead of an ordeal with impatient waiting
everyone remembers that an insignificant problem
caused a small amount of downtime
that resulted in everyone enjoying a slice of pizza.
Almost everyone feels happy, except the vegans.

However, if a server fails
then fixing it is not rushed.
An important server will have a backup server.
The backup server fulfills mission critical tasks
until the primary server becomes repaired.

If only an init-script could vanquish tribbles
then they would be no trouble at all.
Yet, every SA also owns a screw driver because
SAs are responsible for solving both hardware and software problems.

Hardware maintenance becomes reason
for people with inadequate lore
to regard the system administrator role
as tantamount to an electronic janitor.
Janitors mop floors and change light bulbs.
SAs mop file systems and change power supplies.
Is system administration skilled labor?
Opinions vary.

Please pardon the digression from chroot.
The explanation of chroot resumes below.

The init-scripts to complete the aforementioned tasks
must be run executed while chrooted within the root file system.
This task must be done on the root file system
that is used to generated the initramfs images.
Therefore, the assumption shall become that
/+/base/ is that file system.

The actual command to execute is:

chroot /+/base/ /etc/init.d/extlinux force-reload

Execution of the above command completes this step.
It generates missing initramfs images.
It generates an extlinux configuration file.
It installs the boot loader to the boot block
of the file system mounted on /+/base/boot/
