While the deployment docent is installed;
security is circumvented.
The deployment docent provides a root shell.
The deployment docent is uninstalled by executing command:

au reap/deployment-docent; reap

Normal login requires several steps.

First, press and hold the left alt key.
Press and hold the left shift key.
Finally, tap the 'A' key.
Now release the keys.

The active virtual console switched
to a virtual console that is not in use.
Then a program called mrgetty executes.
mrgetty provides a menu for selecting
a file system for login.

Use the arrow keys to highlight a file system.
Press the space bar to select.
The login process begins on the file system.

The login process prompts for a username.
The login process prompts for a password.
Up to 5 attempts are provided for entering
a valid username/password combination.

If successfully authneticated then
bash runs as a login shell.
A menu similar to the file system selection menu appears.
The arrow keys highlight and space is pressed
to select a command to run.

/bin/bash is the name of the BASH shell.
It might be provided as /etc/shells.d/bash
/etc/shells.d/bash is a symbolic link to /bin/bash
/etc/shells.d/ is a directory that
provides symbolic links to shells.
If a window manager is installed
then xinit can be run and provided
with the name of a window manager as a client.

Additional options are presented if slash is pressed
instead of space or arrow keys.

For decades computer workstations booted
and then presented a single GUI login screen.
This worked fine.
Computers provided merely a single file system.

However, a computer which provides
login for multiple file systems
must provide a method for file system selection.
To avoid added complexity and memory utilization
for running a GUI login program on the rootfs
a simple text based getty is used instead.

It looks like legacy technology.
However a modern operating system provide:
multiple real file systems;
unshared namespace;
and virtual Ethernet adapters.
Legacy operating systems provide
only a single root file system.
