The MBR is the Master Boot Record.
The MBR is the metaphorical front of the disk.
The MBR should contain executable computer code.
The MBR code is loaded from disk into RAM by BIOS.
The MBR code begins execution when BIOS POST completes.
The MBR code loads the partition table from disk into RAM.
The MBR code locates the first partition marked as bootable.
The MBR code loads the the boot block from the bootable partition into RAM.
The MBR code passes execution to the code from the boot block.
The MBR must contain code that can boot.
The MBR of a fixed disks might lack bootable code.
Or it might contain NULL or a virus.
Therefore, best to install a trusted MBR.

The syslinux software project provides
boot loaders for booting from CDROM and from fixed disk.
It also provides a file containing bootable MBR code.
The code must be copied from the file
to the MBR of the fixed disk.
A suitable command would be:

cat /usr/share/syslinux/gptmbr.bin > $DEVICE_NODE

$DEVICE_NODE should not be literally typed.
Instead replace $DEVICE_NODE
with the name of the device node.
The name of the device node
for the primary mass storage device is frequently
/dev/sda

Avoid the error of installing the
the bootable MBR code to a partition boot block.
Boot loader code should be installed to /dev/sda1
The bootable MBR code and boot loader code differ.

If booting was a walk through the neighborhood
then the sites visited would be as follows.
First, the BIOS POST office would appear.
Then, the MBR road would be encountered.
Following, MBR road leads to boot block.
After visiting boot block the kernel street appears.
The flow chart looks like:
POST -> MBR -> boot block -> Linux kernel.

Booting requires a suitable MBR,
one partition with the boot attribute enabled,
and a boot loader installed into the boot block of the boot partition.
And it requires a few more things explained in later steps.
Successful completion of related steps are essential
for creating a computer that can boot.
Hopefully, the purpose of the MBR was demystified.

For the lingering question of, what is a boot block.
The boot block is a reserved area of space
at the start of an partition or file system.
The boot block and boot loader
are explained in later steps.
For now the goal is to
create a bootable MBR.
