Random Access Memory or RAM   is similar to short term memory.
Space on mass storage devices is similar to long  term memory.
Accessing data in RAM is fast.
Accessing data from a mass storage devices is slow.

A swap system is a portion of a mass storage device.
A swap system temporarily store the content
of less frequently accessed RAM.
Then the RAM can be re-tasked when required.
Swap systems are not an adequate substitute for RAM
when tasks require significant amounts of RAM
such as linking MesaLib or linking firefox.

When a partition is initialized as a swap system
then that partition is called a swap partition.
When a file is initialized as a swap system
then that file is called a swap file.
Both swap partitions and swap files
are collectively called swap space.

Usage of RAM is made more efficient
by moving infrequently accessed RAM contents
into swap space.
This is called swapping out.
When RAM is backed by swap
then the RAM can remain at it's current task
or be immediately re-tasked.
If re-tasked then the data remains
in the swap system.
When the data is accessed
then it is read from the swap system into RAM.

Not all of RAM contents can be swapped out.
RAM used directly by the kernel for holding
the kernel's own instruction code and data
can not be swapped.
Several factors control when RAM contents
will be copied into the swap system.

Processes are running programs.
tmpfs are temporary file systems that exist in memory.
Cache is the utilization of RAM
to remember recently accessed data on block devices.
Processes and tmpfs can use RAM and swap.
Cache only utilizes RAM.
A recent improvement in kernel version 3.9.0
allows a SSD to be used for block device caching.

When sufficient RAM is available
then processes run at maximum speed
without delay caused by swapping data
between RAM and space space.
However, not everything in memory
will necessarily be accessed.
Therefore, swap space can be used
to prevent fast RAM from being wasted
on the task of storing neglected data.

Some plans have dedicated swap partitions.
If the plan has a dedicated swap partition
then initialize the swap partition.
Also add the swap partition to file
/+/main/etc/fstab
The above file is created at a later step
So do not edit it yet.

/bin/swapon -a
The above command does not yet support
the -T parameter for specifying the fstab file.
Therefore, /etc/init.d/swap activates the swap spaces
specified in /etc/fstab on a root file system during runlevel.
/etc/fstab.rootfs is used during sysinit
for mounting file systems that attach to the rootfs.

Some plans lack a dedicated swap partition.
That is not problematic.
swap files are automatically initialized
and automatically activated
to prevent excessive memory use
from causing a swap lock scenario.
Swap lock is when all processes
remain suspend indefinitely
while the kernel thrashes swap space.

Automatically generated swap files
are discarded during the next boot.
Swap files do not require
permanent delegation of disk space
provided that available space exists
where the swap file is created.

Swap partitions and swap files serve the same purpose.
However swap partitions have 3 additional benefits.
Swap partitions are faster.
Swap partitions do not fragment a file system.
Suspend to disk requires an adequately sized swap partition.
1/2 the size of installed RAM swap partition is usually sufficient.
When performance or being able to suspend matters
then a swap partition is a must.

Even with a massive amount of installed RAM
a 1 gigabyte swap system can provide a benefit.
RAM can become fragmented.
RAM can be de-fragmented.
However, RAM being used by a process is not de-fragmented.
The swap area can store the content
of infrequently accessed RAM.
Then the RAM can be de-fragmented.
If the content is required again
then it can be reloaded into less fragmented RAM.

RAM that is not fragmented
can be allocated in 2 megabyte pages.
Granting a 2 megabyte page of RAM to a process
is faster than having that process page fault
512 times in order to receive the same amount of RAM
provided at the rate of 4096 byte per page fault.

RAM is not provided when a process invokes malloc.
Malloc provides address space.
When a process attempts to access/modify it's address space
then a page fault can occur.
During that page fault the process is suspended
while the Linux kernel maps RAM to the address.
Page faults reduce performance.
Providing a 2 MB page of RAM increases performance.

To gain a view of the current memory situation
run the following command:
cat /proc/meminfo

The kernel can de-fragment memory to create 2 MB pages.
When pressure for RAM exists the kernel can also
reduce a 2 MB page into 512 4 kilobyte pages.
Currently, only content of 4K pages of RAM
can be transferred to a swap space.
However, it can be read back into a 2 MB page of RAM.

Obviously, the kernel can more efficiently manage RAM
when the RAM is allocated sequentially in 2 MB pages.
However, POSIX are multi-tasking operating systems.
Processes can demand RAM concurrently.
And so the kernel grants RAM
on a nearly first come first served basis.

When an abundance of RAM exists
then the kernel can de-fragment it
and also use it for the task of caching.
Over-stocking installed RAM is possible.
However, such boxes are rarely encountered.
The kernel will use the excess RAM for cache
while attempting to maintain a small yet sane
amount of free RAM to rapidly start new processes
or fulfill the needs of existing processes.
That is why 512M of swap space could become
a clubhouse for seldom accessed data
on a workstation with many gigabytes of installed RAM.

Unless configured to do otherwise
the Linux kernel will happily over commit it's RAM.
That is because Linux expects processes
will not entirely use the address space requested.
And Linux expects to be able to swap out
infrequently accessed RAM contents.

Read the following file to discover more about 2 MB pages:
/usr/src/linux/Documentation/vm/transhuge.txt

If Linux was an automobile rather than a kernel
then transparent huge pages would be the turbo charger.
And a 1G swap system would be the added inlets in the hood
to provide additional air forced into the turbo charger.
Certainly, Linux and transparent huge pages
will work without a swap system.
It will work less effectively.
The more available RAM linux can create
then the better it's probability
of being able to de-fragment it.

Allowing infrequently accessed RAM content to be swapped to disk
allows the RAM to be re-tasked to kernel cache
and to the task of maintaining an amount of free RAM.
Having plenty of RAM available
for the kernel's cache
is an important factor in performance!

Swap is about performance.
Swap is not merely for enabling a computer
with less than copious amounts of RAM to perform.
Swap can enhance the performance of a computer
that has copious amounts of installed RAM.

Finally, as previously mentioned limits can be created
to prevent Linux from allocating more than a specific
amount of RAM and SWAP to a process.
However, limiting each process is inconvenient.
Therefore, several processes can be grouped together.
Then the limit can be applied to the group.

Limits can be applied to root file systems
by modifying the control groups initialization
that is done during sysinit.
The command to run from the root file system
that generates the initramfs images would be
/etc/init.d/cgroup-init-rootfs configure

If within a root file system
and limits are desired for a user or users
or system started services, etc...
then those limits can be adjusted by running
/etc/init.d/cgroup-init-root configure

Controls groups are explained in directory
/usr/src/linux/Documentation/cgroups/
The documentation for the memory subsystem is in
/usr/src/linux/Documentation/cgroups/memory.txt

When running
/etc/init.d/cgroup-init-rootfs configure
then the directories are the FQDN for each root file system.
If the FQDN for the testing root file system is
test.bcgnt.gov
then /sys/fs/cgroup/test.bcgnt.gov/ would exist
and contain the hierarchy for that root file system.
Limits can be set there.
