   VERSION=( "2.6.1" "2.6.0" "2.4.2" "2.4.1" "2.4.0" "2.2.2" "2.2.1" "2.2.0" "2.0.4" "2.0.3" "2.0.2" "2.0.1" "2.0.0" )
  CATEGORY="utility time monitor audio-mixer"
 ATTRIBUTE="gnome x11"
    SOURCE="sources/gnome-applets/${VERSION:0:3}/gnome-applets-$VERSION"
  HOMEPAGE="http://www.gnome.org"
       URL="$GNOME_URL"
       REQ="gail gnome-panel gst-plugins libgtop libxklavier scrollkeeper"
 FRESHMEAT="gnome-applets"
  GNOMEFTP="gnome-applets"
  ESTIMATE="1229"
     SHORT="gnome-applets contains various applets for GNOME panel"
      LONG="
gnome-applets contains:
another_clock		Simple analog clock.
asclock			The AfterStep Clock applet.
clockmail		Clock and Mailcheck applet.
jbc			Jon's Binary Clock applet.
battery			Show battery charge.
cpumemusage		Show CPU, memory and swap usage.
diskusage		Show disk usage.
cpuload			Show CPU usage.
memload			Show memory usage.
swapload		Show swap usage.
netload			Show load on different network interfaces.
loadavg			Show oad average.
charpick		Allows you to easily write many characters 
			which are not available on standard keyboards.
drivemount		Allows you to quickly and easily mount and 
			unmount various types of drives and filesystems.
gkb			Allows you to easily and quickly change the 
			keyboard map to those used in various different 
			countries.
mini-commander		Adds a command line to your Panel.
quicklaunch		An applet which holds application launchers.
tickastat		Watches various aspects of your system and delivers
			information when certain events occur.
whereami		Shows the position of your mouse pointer on the screen.
gweather		Retrieves from the Internet and displays various 
			weather information.
screenshooter		A handy little screengrabber (Need imagemagick).
gnotes			Allows you to cover your GNOME desktop with 
			little, yellow, virtual sticky-notes.
webcontrol		allows you to launch your Netscape browser with 
			the URL you indicate in the URL text box.
slash			Show last news from slashdot.org
modemlights		Monitor your modem while it is working.
fifteen			Is a version of the old game of moving squares 
			around a grid to put them into numerical order.
geyes			Is a pair of eyes which follow your mouse 
			pointer around the screen.
life			An applet which runs the game of life according 
			to Conway's rules.
odometer		Tracks and measures the movements of your 
			mouse pointer across the desktop.
cdplayer		Play CDs from a panel.
mixer			Interface for controlling the sound volume and 
			launching the Audio Mixer.
sound-monitor		A sound volume display and an interface for 
			controlling Enlightenment Sound Daemon.
"
