Date:     20020929
Subject:  gcc 2.95.3 and 3.2.

Yes, the variables that control architecture and optimization
have changed again.  Again re-enter sorcery's option menu 
and reconfigure, and possibly also edit /etc/sorcery/local.config
removing left over optimize statements.

The reason for this is that Sorcerer is advancing to a dual 
compiler installation.  Both gcc 2.95.3 and 3.x will be installed
concurrently and the best one that works for a spell will be
automatically invoked.  As usual this the default compiler for a 
spell is modifiable by a SA by using sorcery or augur.

If you are already have installed gcc 3.2, then know that in
order to have the spell gcc2 installed you must have gcc 2.95.3
installed to compile it with.  Without gcc2 installed there will be
about around 50 spells which are not patched to compile with gcc3, 
and therefore will fail during compilation.

Most of the changes in sorcery following this will
be bug fixes, and cleanup of the grimoire and spell
improvements.  After that Sorcerer will be a stable 
distribution.  An improved Install/Rescue ISO9660 
will be available for download.  If you have 
suggestions for what you want in sorcery, do not
hesitate to be mention them, now.  After sorcery 
goes stable I will be less likely to change 
anything about it on a whim, but instead will 
likely add those changes to a dev branch of sorcery.

The cleanup of the grimoire will consist mostly of name changes.
Where as before we named the newer version of gtk+ gtk+2, it 
will now be called gtk+ while the older version is called gtk+1.
This will assist the curious people and services like
distrowatch with tracking versions of spells.
Previously, it checked gtk+ when it should have 
checked gtk+2 for the desired versions.
Now the renaming of old versions the version for the name 
they are checking will coincide with the version they expect.

Thanks go out to everyone who has participated in the 
testing and honing of sorcery and contributed bug 
reports so that fixes were made to the implementation
to make everything function as expected.

- Kyle
