Sorcerer News for 20021215

Subject:  Where do you dead spells go?

Most of you are familiar with the install cache.
After a spell is compiled a .tar.bz2 of the 
installed files is created.  That was great, 
because we could dispel an installed spell
and bring it back from the cache without
the time required to recompile.

The drawback to the install cache was that it grew
and grew, and grew, and it is probably using up a 
few gigabytes on your boxes if you have not cleaned it.
Another drawback is that you would not have .tar.bz2 
files for spells that you did not compile yourself.  
A newly installed Sorcerer box from ISO9660 contains
almost no install cache files.

The solution to these problems was to create the 
necropolis.  Necropolis means city of the dead, a
place where dead people are buried.  You probably
knew that, but in case you did not it fits in nicely
with the theme, and it is just plain difficult to
choose names for new features.

The necropolis stores .tar.bz2 files of installed 
spells that are created right before the spell is
dispelled.  Therefore, if necropolis is enabled in
features then a bones .tar.bz2 file will be generated
for each spell removed.  Those bones files can be used 
to restore a previously installed spell in the event 
that a new cast or an upgrade does not function as expected.

Additionally, the install cache has been obsoleted
and replaced with the archive cache, which works 
very similarly to the install cache, except that 
it has a SA specifiable maximum size limit just 
like the necropolis cache.

Thus by using the archive and necropolis caches 
a box should be able to obtain a comfortable
compromise between safety and size, instead of 
having the run away, pacman your entire disk, 
install cache of the past.

The default size for the archive and necropolis
caches is 1GB each.  Like most options and 
features in sorcery the size can be changed,
and also either cache can be enabled or disabled.
Chances are that the necropolis cache is not
enabled on your boxes, so in order to get this
fantastic feature you should reconfigure right 
away.
