Sorcerer News for 20031206

Subject:  Extra protection

Subtitle:  Playing it safe or stable?

Avoiding software upgrade also avoids the 
problems, new bugs, or instability caused
by the newer versions of software.
However keeping installed software current
minimizes risk that the software installed
and running on a box may have known security 
vulnerability that can be exploited in order 
to gain unauthorized access to your boxes.
Safe holding, also called sold, allows for 
installed software to avoid being upgraded
as long as it it is not a publicly known 
version that contains security risks.
Using safe hold provided adequate 
compromise between stability and safety.
This level of safety is adequate for most
boxes, but maybe not for high profile
boxes that someone is eagerly and patiently
awaiting an opportunity to root.


Subtitle:  Would you trade a small performance hit for enhanced security?

Some types of exploits are based upon 
buffer overflows, or stack overflows.
Would you trade 3% or 5% of your 
computing power for a generic defense
against these types of attacks?

Introducing the new spells of: 
linux,grsecurity; gcc,heapprotect; gcc,ssp

These spells provide patched versions of 
the base spell that offers enhanced
security at the cost of a little more CPU overhead.
linux,grsecurity requires a bit of effort to
set up, but gcc,heapprotect and gcc,ssp can
be applied and used without much further consideration.

They will not protect all your software from
all types of exploits known and/or unknown.
Reality is that it could save your box from
being rooted by application of a not publicly
known exploit on some software that you have
installed and/or is running.
Like adding some iron bars to a house's windows
it may prevent intrusion from those specific 
windows, but by no means makes a house impenetrable.


Subtitle:  Your box your choice.

Sorcerer gives SAs more choices about the 
level of security they run their boxes with.
Sorcerer will not compete with high security distros.
The difference is that with Sorcerer the SA 
choose whether or not to enable extra security.

The vanilla spell of linux, gcc, glibc still provide 
relatively vanilla installations of the software.
If the authors of these software projects thought 
the extra security was essential then they would 
have integrated the patch, or perhaps in the 
future they will.


Subtitle:  Caveat Emptor

If your run mozilla using glibc,heapprotect 
then you will encounter many:

glibc[32140]: WARNING: Heap overflow detected at malloc.c:4465, aborting 
(mem: 0x41f00490, calc: 0x731563dd, stored: 0x35ed63dd)

Perhaps mozilla has some heap overflow problems,
which are not intentional exploits, but instead 
bugs that need to be fixed?

Either you can work around it by running mozilla 
using a vanilla glibc installed not in /lib or 
switch to another multi-browser.

Also I have heard rumor that some c++ programs may
either not compile properly with gcc,ssp or may
not run properly after compiled with gcc,ssp
I do not know of any at the moment.

The short explanation is that if you use the enhanced
security versions of glibc, gcc, linux then you may
encounter additional problems because of it.
The rare and occasional bug encountered with a 
software project used in conjunction with a 
security enhanced version of glibc, gcc or linux
may be worth enduring for the added protection if 
the effected software is not mission critical.
The risks and rewards I leave to you to 
determine for yourself on your dev boxes.


Subtitle:  New Install Rescue Disk soon

Keep checking for the availability of a new 
install/rescue disk before new deployments.
We should have a new stable one with 
linux 2.4.23 and gcc 3.3.2 ready for use before 2004.
