Sorcerer News for 20030922

Subject:  Back on track.

Sentinel should be the default file modification tracking 
method on all ia32 and strace on all other architectures.
Any of the sorcery utilities can on demand merge grimoires,
generate a new index, or update an existing index so 
quickly that even the SAs running laptops have no excuse 
for not mounting tmpfs on /var/state/sorcery
Now that we have a patched linux 2.4.22 
we can enjoy encrypted swap partitions.
Such a sweet moment could very well be the calm before the storm.
Changes are coming so read this news fully to prepare for them.

First, as discussed on the email lists, sorcerer-grimoire will be 
split into several easier to maintain grimoires that will be based 
upon the role of a box or useful system administration concepts.
For example having a category of x11 or XFree86 is too 
broad to be of any use in selecting specific spells.
However it tends to work for a the concept of a grimoire.
SAs can designate boxes to run without XFree86 or any 
programs requiring it and therefore will find it easier 
and faster to maintain those boxes by not having spells 
that require XFree86 in the merged grimoire.

To help cast locate spells as they migrate 
into new grimoires order please "cast gmap".
gmap is a spell that provides a spell to grimoire 
map for all spells, including those in grimoires
they may not be installed on the box.
By having gmap installed cast will have a good 
chance at being able to determine what additional 
grimoires may need to be installed in order to supply 
spells that satisfy absolute or optional requirements.

Another important change is that placing the 
contents of a BUILD file within a ( ) > $C_FIFO 2>&1
subshell is no longer recommended.
However it can still be explicitly used where needed.
This change will save a miniscule amount of space
in the grimoires, but more importantly have one less
tricky aspect to cause new spell writers a typo over.
Calling prepare_install before 
installing files is still mandatory.

The many spells that installed KDE are now 
a single spell with many branches.
Each branch replaces a previous
spell so that kdelibs becomes kde,libs 
and kdebase becomes kde,base
and kde-profile becomes kde.

There are several advantages to this method,
however for brevity I explicate only one.
Grouping the kde spells together makes them easier 
to maintain and less likely that any spell or 
group is accidentally left out of the change.

The grimoire you just downloaded has 
the new kde spell and branches in it.  
Yes I know you just recently recompiled
all of kde to upgrade to 3.1.4.
So when you see the kde 3.1.5 become
available remember to cast kde to 
install the new spells and remove 
the old ones, otherwise they will not update.
Sorry for the inconvenience, but some SAs
might not want the change immediately
and forcefully propagated throughout the
entire distribution.  casting kde may
be a good task for 'at.'

No similar change is planned for gnome spells as
they continue to be a chaotic mess of different
versions that change independently making it a 
slightly confusing to assemble a complete and 
up to date working GNOME desktop environment.
It is only a challenge for distribution maintainers.
For you sorcerer SAs it's [augur] easy right?  :)

New installations of sorcerer should be done using the latest 
Install/Rescue ISO currently in the beta download directory.
Anything previously stable is now too old.
Anything previously beta simply is not as good as current.
The current installer supports ext2, 
ext3, reiserfs, jfs, and yes it works.
Something more fun to try is to use the compiled in kernel 
crypto functions to create some encrypted partitions.
Yes, encryption is finally on the Install/Rescue disk, 
along with openssh and openssl.  Have fun.

That is the news.
If you have input about what you
want in the separation of 
sorcerer-grimoire or you want
to try maintaining a grimoire
please converse with us on the email list.
