Sorcerer News for 20030816

Subject:  Changes for those who love those xdelta source upgrade patches.


You didn't want to pay and so we no longer get to play with cabal.
Goodbye to our cabal multi-version-hop xdelta upgrade server.
Thank you to the few awesome SAs who did contribute.
I am sorry to say that it was not enough.

If you are connected to the Internet with a 28.8 modem 
or less then I can feel your pain, or at least empathise.
Additionally, to pour salt in your wound single hop xdelta
upgrade patches will no longer be automatically generated
at ibiblio.org.  Please wait a moment before cursing my name, 
because there is yet good news left to tell.

xdelta source upgrade patches will now be generated 
on demand at ibiblio.org upon request of leech.
If the new and old sources are present at ibiblio.org and
both you and ibiblio.org have the same old source then
for a few moments of waiting the required xdelta patch 
will be generated and placed in a download directory.

If someone previously generated the xdelta source upgrade 
patch that leech requires then the previously generated 
xdelta patch will be downloaded instead of waiting.
Therefore, with xdelta patches it is good not to be first.

There is no restriction on the version 
hop of the xdelta patch requested and generated.
Skipping several versions is possible if
the required sources are at ibiblio.org 
and you have one of those older sources.

Having xdelta patches made available this
way has two significant benefits.
First, it gives SAs a nearly unlimited service for 
minimizing bytes download and time downloading.
Secondly, it helps reduce our consumption 
of CPU and bandwidth at ibiblio.org.

The cost of this service is an increased 
use of disk space for holding old sources.
Therefore, old sources will remain available 
only as space and ibiblio.org SA's permit.
Hopefully, we can store somewhere between
1/4 a year and 1/2 a years worth of sources
released in addition to current sources.
So do consider upgrading held spells at
least quarterly in order to gain the 
benefit of downloading smaller xdelta source
upgrade patches instead of full source tarballs.
