Sorcerer News for 2004322

Subject:  Finally, that works.

Subtitle:  New Install/Rescue Disk.

After 25+ hours of testing and bug fixing all reported 
issues with the Install/Rescue disk have been fixed.
There is one additional menu improvement.

Having problems burning a 100% reliable Install/Rescue disk?
Getting a some errors when transferring the ISO9660 to disk?
Yes it happens to me frequently.
It is understandably frustrating.
Fortunately, it is no longer an obstacle.

Burn a fresh CD.
Go through the menus again to the transfer option.
But instead of transferring do a transfer check, the option below.
That will identify the files that didn't transfer properly 
from the first CD and install them from the new CD.
This procedure works good when a handful of files failed 
reading from the first CD, but are okay on the second.
Short of a problem with the CD burner or the CD reader,
then usually errors do not occur in the same files.
This will usually work in most cases.

Selecting to check for bad blocks 
while initializing file systems now works.
Apparently, mkfs malfunctions when command line 
parameters to it are not passed in a precise order.
That was what caused it to fail to even create the
file system previously when checking was selected.

Automatic file system unmounting when exiting the 
menu driven installer now can unmount /mnt/root/ 
instead of having to reboot or shutdown with 
/mnt/root/ still mounted.


Subtitle:  EEEH

Eeeh may describe how you feel about the early easter egg hunt.
There are some fun and fine new features hidden in sorcery.
As usual most can be activated from 
the options, features and integrity menus.
See if you can be the first person to announce 
a new feature you discovered on our email list.
Not to take all the fun out of your expedition
I will announce the undiscovered features around Easter
Happy hunting.


Subtitle:  No news is good news.

There has been no Sorcerer news 
to report this first quarter.
Yes, that is precisely why you have not received any.
The quality of free software in 2004 has been excellent!

If your boxes update frequently and regularly
then they have been getting the many important
security updates which seem to have been a 
frequent occurrence this first quarter of 2004.
We have not been running security announcements 
because everyone does and it is much easier to 
simply subscribe to the security focus email list,
if you are interested in knowing why you should 
update a specific installed software.
As usual you are encouraged to use sold or 
safe holds in order to keep software that
you want maintained at a specific version 
from not becoming a security vulnerability.

Thanks for everyone who has reported bugs this first quarter,
and especially those who reported both the bugs and fixes,
and also thanks to those who have supplied language translation files.
